Business ethics is a form of applied ethics that examines ethical principles and moral
problems that arise in the business environment. Many changes have been made for the last
few decades within businesses trying to maintain ethics in their workplace. Some researchers
believe that ethics contributes to the success of the business. Others have different views;
they argue that the main goal of the business is to make profits and create more value for
shareholders. They reiterate that ethics cannot build a business or cannot be the top priority of
the business. The essay aims to describe the difference in profit making between ethical
business behaviour of the company and shady businesses.
There is a huge debate regarding ethical standards in organizations and the way it
contributes to the success. Many people believe ethics does not count much in business, they
argue that the main objective of the business is profit making. However, one thing that has
risen for the last several years is that businesses are trying as much as possible to main ethical
standards in their daily activities. Despite the call for ethical needs in businesses, some
companies that have been accused of running the businesses in an unethical manner appear to
be more successful. In the UK, HSBC is among many companies that have faced many
accusations for conducting its businesses in an unusual manner. According to Peston, the
bank has been accused of money laundering in and outside the UK (2011).
According to Vulliamy (2012), the investigation revealed that HSBC was doing
nothing to control money laundering by drug cartels and terrorist. Prior the issues under
investigation by the Senate in the U.S., the bank was still settling issues with the Justice
Department in relation to money laundering and tax evasion. However, in the case before the
U.S. Senate, the bank explained to the Senate that it had changed their policies related to the
topic. Bank management pointed out that over-hauled anti-money laundering policies were
adopted. However, it was noted that the bank had been accused previously for similar issues.
In addition, the bank had assured the Senate in 2003 that they were working on reforms 
meant to tackle irregularities. Other less ethical banks in the UK are Barclays and the
Standard Charted Bank. Despite all the accusations, these banks appear as the most trusted by
the customers. HSBC is an international bank that operates in many countries, such as China,
Brazil, Germany, India, Turkey and the United States. In the UK alone, the bank has a huge
number of retail banking. This shows that the bank is quite successful despite many blames
level on by the government of the U.S. and the UK.
Starbucks is a famous company that is described as the most ethical company in the
business environment. The company runs coffee shops in advanced economies such as the
United States and others. However, some issues arise due to the company business activity in
the UK. According to the Sky News report, Starbucks avoided tax payment for three years
since 2009 (2012). The company defended itself saying that they faced losses when first
entered UK market. The report by the Sky News (2012) reveals that the company made sales
approximating to £1.2 billion but paid no taxes. Other companies made sales a little bit higher
than Starbucks and paid taxes. For example, in the same year, McDonald’s sales were £3.6
billion and the company paid taxes amounting to over £80 million. KFC is another company
operating in the UK; it paid taxes amounting to £36 million on sales approximating to
£1.1billion. It is evident from the study that Starbucks evaded tax payment despite huge level
of sales. KFC paid taxes in the same year despite making sales much less than Starbucks.
However, McDonald's was also subjected to accusation for unethical behavior
According to British consumers, the company is less ethical as compared to other high profile
companies. The public relation of the company was affected by a film depicting the effects of
the products offered to the public. Based on the documentary titled Super-Size Me, the
company was shown as a cause of rising obesity in Europe and the United States (Walsh,
2006). Although, the company objected the claims stating that they have made huge changes
on their menu. In the UK, companies that operate largely in other countries are blamed for 
running their business unethically. For example, BP and Shell are blamed for environmental
degradation; Nike is accused of engaging with suppliers that use children as a labor force in
Asian countries. To sum up, although all above-mentioned companies were blamed for
unethical business behavior, they are still the top companies in profit making. 