Disputes and conflicts are no longer limited to boundaries; the notion of a world without
boundaries has led to expansion in transactions between countries. These transactions have
offered various advantages, but also have led to conflicts between individuals and organizations
of different countries. Such conflicts can be resolved in two ways - violent and nonviolent.
Present essay will focus on different ways of solving international disputes including alternative
dispute resolution (ADR) and international tribunals. The paper will also describe the difference
between municipal courts and methods for settling international disputes.
ADR is an umbrella term used for various methods used to settle disputes in the
international arena (August, Mayer & Bixby, 2009). These methods are used when two
international parties end up disagreeing with each other; when parties want to solve the dispute
without going to courts. There are various advantages and disadvantages associated with this sort
of dispute settlement process. Firstly, comparing to the legal proceeding, the ADR is cost
effective. When applying to the court, the party should cover the costs of hiring and deploying a
lawyer, court fees and expenses related to the creation and obtaining legal documentation. ADR
is well applicable to the conflicts that do not involve high-priced disputes. Secondly, when cases
go to municipal courts, they catch the eyes of the public and media. Such kind of attention can
hamper the positive countenance of companies that trade internationally. One of the key ADR
benefits is the privacy protection of parties involved, as the companies are not obligated to share
their private information with the public. Thirdly, legal proceedings are time-consuming as
sometimes it may take years to settle a dispute in court. Using the ADR method, a dispute can be
solved within two or three weeks; the process time mainly depends on willingness of the parties
to negotiate. The last but not the least, application of the ADR method can lead to a win solution
for both parties, that is less common in municipal court cases (August et al., 2009).
Despite all the benefits of the ADR method, some drawbacks are also present. One of the major
disadvantage lies in the fact that ADR is not enforced by law, so the parties are free to decide
whether to abide the resolution or not. On the other hand, the judicial decisions are final and
binding. Furthermore, there always is a chance that the fair justice may not take place due to the
prospect that stronger party is able to direct the resolution to his favor (August et al., 2009). In
addition, we should remember that the panelist of ADR is not a judge; therefore, sometimes it is
not easy to resolve the conflict in a high professional manner.
ADR is a dispute solving method, which is not processed under legal circumstances; on
the other hand, there are ways through which international problems can be resolved through
judiciary procedures. These methods are recognized as international tribunals, there are various
such courts including the WTO and the International Court of Justice. The advantages of such
tribunals are that the decisions made through this method are final and cannot be appealed in
other courts. Secondly, these methods are free from partiality. This means that the individuals
who make decisions and resolve the case are unbiased and cannot be influenced by the parties
who are at conflict. This gives rise to decisions made in a just manner. The decisions under this
method of solving international conflicts are made by judges who have the expertise similar to
the judges of municipal courts and common rules and regulations are applied to the cases. The
rules made by the judge are created by the rule of law and are free from the power of one of the
parties. The decisions made under this method are legally binding and enforceable by law. This
means that the parties involved in the conflict have to abide by the decisions made and if they
don’t, they have to face future consequences. Certain decisions made by the municipal courts are
said to be influenced by the government. In international courts, a third party is involved to the
dispute settlement. Due to this, governments of the parties involved can not be held responsible
for the results of the dispute settlement process. The decisions and case proceedings in
international tribunals often lead to the creation of international standards and laws and
companies competing internationally have to abide by these laws (August et al., 2009). The cases
that pass through these tribunals are based on well-researched facts and figures, thus the
decisions are quite effective.
The associated disadvantages of this sort of dispute solving method are that the outcomes
may result in a loss for one of the parties and a win-win situation may not take place. Secondly,
the selection of the judges may be influenced by political and economic factors due to which this
dispute settlement method may become impartial. According to August et al. (2009), since no
party has control over the decision making body and decision itself, there is a factor of
uncertainty associated with this problem-solving method.
Taking all the aforesaid into consideration, in case international dispute occurs, the
parties involved may choose the way of solving this issue on their own. They can select dispute
settlement by the court or address to alternative dispute resolution, which is cost effective and
less time consuming.