1. Project Overview
This Joint Incentive Fund proposal focused on identifying common needs between federal
agencies and on discovering the best methods of standardization that can be implemented to take
advantage of these common needs. In specific, this Joint Incentive Fund proposal focuses on
courseware used in educational programs. To focus on these groups, this JIF intends to launch
Commercial Off the Shelf (COTS) e learning courseware that focuses on existing scalable
learning management systems.
The launch of these Commercial Off the Shelf e learning courseware is proposed for the primary
goal of standardizing existing educational software. In specific, this Joint Incentive Fund
Proposal aims to provide a common system of healthcare courseware for annual training
requirements, such as those from the OSHA, the CDC, The Joint Commission, other relevant
organizations. This JIF aims to reduce costs to and to increase efficacy for the parties involved in
this training and to those involved in the distribution and creation of these programs, as well as to
the individuals involved in administering this training.
It is hypothesized that the proposal that is suggested by this Joint Incentive Fund would reduce
financial costs, would increase accessibility, would increase consistency, and would increase
readiness for individuals involved in mandatory training in DoD, VA, and other healthcare
facilities that are supported by the Bureau of Indian Affairs and by the Coast Guard. The metrics
off of which these factors are measured are as defined by these organizations and their specific
needs.
The project seeks to achieve four primary goals and objectives. First, the project aims to
standardize these training and education programs through joint DoD and VA effort, in order to
facilitate communication, ease of use, and to achieve the various other goals of the project. The
second goal is that of ensuring that VA and DoD healthcare personnel are aware of any and all
changing regulations and to ensure that these individuals are compliant with these regulations.
Third, through standardization, the project aims to decrease costs, to increase consistency, to
increase portability, and to increase readiness reporting. Finally, the project aims to reduce the
cost of training by 50% to 60% through decreasing reducing seat time, decreasing redundant
development time, removing inconsistencies, streamlining annual review and management, and
reducing travel costs.
2. Project Implementation
a. Activities
The first stage of this JIF proposal is that of preparation. The preparation stage of this project
entails the distribution of all planned courses to review parties within 45 days of the award date.
All programs will be tested on the target LMS platform, to ensure that functionality is correct.
Testing will be thorough, after which requests for changes to programs may be made; however,
if changes are requested, additional funding or modification to proposed timeframes may be
required. This stage ends with preparation of support systems.
The second stage of the project is that of distribution of WTB content through the MHS Learning
Management System (LMS). Specifically, this distribution will be done through the VA’s
centralized LMS platform, as the use of this standardized and accessible platform is congruent
with this project’s stated goals of increasing accessibility and maintainability. Slight differences
will occur between the distribution methods used among various branches, depending on their
existing infrastructure; in all cases, the existing infrastructure will be used, rather than having
new infrastructure be created.
The final stage of this project is that of providing follow up support, troubleshooting, and
management to address issues that may arise. The COTS programs that are planned to be
implemented under this JIF proposal are designed in a manner to allow for ease of
troubleshooting; this is done through support systems ingrained into these programs and
maintainability features implemented to allow changes to the functionality of these COTS
programs. Support is included within the scope of purchase of COTS, including both access to
these maintainability features and to communication and assistance from the original COTS
developers (PerforMax). In addition, new courseware will be distributed as relevant and updates
will be provided when needed.
b. Resources
ROI identified in BCA $18,650,000
ROI actual / achieved to date $14,750,000
Projected ROI $66,950,000
Date ROI is expected to be achieved 01/01/2012
Explanation for any deviation ROI is lower during the first year of the project,
but increases through future years. Identified ROI
is gross ROI.
3. Metrics
Metric Value
Savings $66,950,000
Facilities Trained 2 (DoD, VA)
Individuals Trained 225,000
4. Lessons Learned
a. Implementation of this courseware varies based on existing infrastructure of facilities. As
such, implementation to new facilities has continued to have a cost higher than expected. While
it was expected for there to be a cost to implement this technology into new systems, the
differences in infrastructure result in new challenges in each implementation, especially with
large systems.
b. Implementation of new systems often takes longer than expected, especially in large facilities
or facilities that have been in place for a significant amount of time. Adapting to new
technologies and switching from old technologies is difficult for many users, especially those
who are not technologically savvy. This results in a higher than expected amount of support
needed for certain facilities.
5. Conclusions
a. The implementation of standardized educational programs, such as COTS, for DoD and VA
facilities has shown significant benefits, including:
i. Significant financial savings (roughly 50%­60% from previous systems; see table in
section #02)
ii. Decreased time spent using programs (roughly 50%)
iii. Increased maintainability
b. The programs proposed from this JIF report are able to be implemented in additional facilities
from the DoD and VA facilities discussed in this JIF report.
c. The foundations established through this program can be used as a framework for future
electronic educational and/or training programs in other fields, as well as in further healthcare
fields and facilities.