Proactive management means running or managing an enterprise with the use of
strategies, which address issues that expected before their happening with the aim of mitigating
associated risks (Scarrett, 2010). The pro-active management system improves the returns, so it
is essential to understand the meaning of the proactive management. The management plan
should be focused on the trends, expected market, consumer demands, and problems.
Additionally, it is highly encouraged to utilize the proactive management strategy while
involving calculated risks (Stewart, 2016). The primary aim is to ensure that the business is
always running positively with no or minimal slumps. The proactive management system is
effective since it helps to detect the problems early enough. Early recognition of the problems
can help in the evaluation of the capital value of an asset. Given the fact that market value of
properties varies due to economic conditions, it would be wise to evaluate the risks in the market
to make a wise decisions (Rodell et al., 2011). Thus, the main purpose of the paper is to define
the proactive management and evaluate the benefits of proactive management system.
Proactive management system provides a continuous monitoring of the enterprise. As a
result, problems are quickly identified, and mitigation methods are present. The business does
not have to wait until the economic issue emerge to start acting (Lechowicz, 2012). For example,
the phone industry would check on the trends of customers demand and purchase power before
starting to offer a given phone product. The proactive management system would entail doing
assessments on the consumers’ buying capacity before they begin to manufacture a particular
product, so it saves time and surety in venturing the market.
There is no doubt that this technique will always have a positive return, which considers
being a proactive management. In commercial property investments, it would be absurd to wait
for the success. The only way to improve the capital value of an investment is to consider the 
proactive management scheme. The expected difficulties must be sorted out in advance while
considering an action that will mitigate all the risks involved in the investment. All the
undertaken investments have one primary aim, and that is to get positive returns.
In comparison to reactive management scheme, proactive management is far beyond in
ranking. It offers time for the administration to come up with a solid plan to improve the capital
value of the investments (Zanon, 2014). The commercial properties are subject to many
constraints. These limitations affect the capital values either positively or negatively. The
breakdown of issues that may influence the capital values of properties include employment,
political tension, policies, consumers’ attitudes, and much more. When the management can
evaluate such problems in advance rather than reacting to problems in real time, it would lead to
positive returns (Knight Frank n.d.). The chances that a proactive management can lead to
negative returns are minimal if not null. The management in their proactive management scheme
must consider factors that favor the investment firsthand.
As an example, we may consider the capital value of an average house in Chelsea to be
around £ 300,000 in 2016. The investment company, with the use of proactive management
scheme, would evaluate the probability of selling the house in 2017 concerning expected market
variations. For example, a political tension might be looming, and economic deterioration can
happen with high certainty. Therefore, it would be wise to sell the house in 2016 since the
market value is supposed to be lower than the capital value in 2017. Therefore, the investment
company would experience negative returns on their investments (Nothern Ireland, 2011).
Market value can be a subject of constraints that may lead to decrease or increase in the price of
an asset.
Consider a case whereby the government has promised to increase the employment rate
in 2019. The investors will make assessments on the strategies laid down by the government to
ensure whether they are valid or invalid. If they look mature enough, then a building worth £
1,230,000 in 2016 would be worth more than the capital value, because employment rate will be
equivalent to special purchase rate and as a result, the return rate on the particular investment
will be positive (Squires et al., 2009).
In the evaluation technique, the investors must be sure to know the full reason for asset
existence in the first place. The example above uses the house, which is a fundamental
requirement for life. However, changes in market trend and economy of the country have a
significant influence on the property values (Tang et al., 2014). Therefore, the investment
company must define the standard of service so as to know the price values of related services
(Mack, 2016). The company can evaluate the factors that make other services better than theirs
and in turn work towards improving their service. Other than knowing the standard of duty in the
market, it would be wise to understand the performance of the asset. For example, it would be
essential to know the features of one's house before it goes on the market. Then it is followed by
plans of action to evaluate cost, benefits, and make required improvements (Willcom n.d.)
In summary, the commercial investments are subject to interest rates, economic
conditions, government policies, and market variations. Therefore, there is a need for a proactive
management plan to address the issues. The fall or rise in the interest rates in the country have an
effect on the commercial properties (John, 2016). In addition, the cost of borrowing money
contributes in the same way. When it becomes expensive to refinance a real estate, borrowers
will shy off and as a result, market value goes down. The only way to do an intelligent business 
in this scenario is to consider a proactive management criterion. It will ensure that all the risks
are taken care of and that the decision can be made as to whether to invest or not.
The economic conditions in the country have a significant effect on properties. For
example, a hospitality industry would suffer most in the event of unemployment because no one
would attend the hotels (Geltner, 2007). Also, government policies play a vital role in the real
estate investment. For example, a case whereby the policies enacted does not favor a given
company about waste disposal; the company would incur a lot of cost in disposing of wastes,
which may result in laying off workers or increasing the price value of its products (Squires,
2011). Lastly, changes in the market trends have a great effect on the real estate investment.
Conclusively, it is important to pay attention to the influences of the market system before the
investment is considered in what is known as a proactive management system to accrue positive
returns.