The weighted average cost of capital is important to many parties for many reasons. The
implications for managers, investors, and creditors of the company are discussed below. Overall,
the weighted average cost of capital is useful because it allows a company to “see how much
interest the company has to pay for every dollar it finances” (Weighted Average Cost of Capital,
n.d.).
Managers benefit from knowing a company’s weighted average cost of capital for several
reasons. By understanding the WACC, managers are better able to work with the various
investment opportunities that are available. Understanding the cost of interest for dollars
financed is important because even if an amount may seem small per dollar, it can add up over
thousands of dollars invested. This allows managers to capitalize on opportunities that will be
valuable while disregarding those that will not.
Investors benefit from understanding the weighted average cost of capital for a company
because this information has implications for investment. The weighted average cost of capital is
a company’s average rate of return expected to be paid to its investors. If these investors see
weighted average costs of capital that are low, they may want to avoid investing. The opposite is
also true.
Creditors benefits from understanding the weighted average cost of capital of a company
for several reasons. It can be stated that “the minimum return that a company must earn on its
existing asset base to satisfy its creditors, owners, and other providers of capital” (Understanding
the Weighted Average Cost of Capital, n.d.). This means that creditors can expect to receive at a
minimum the return stated in the weighted average cost of capital. This information can be used
to determine the profitability of lending to a particular individual or institution.
Task 3
Based on the research conducted for this project, several conclusions can be made about
what the optimal mix of debt and equity is for Nike. Below, an optimal mix of debt and equity is
discussed. Next, aversions are discussed under the combination of debt and equity proposed.
Next, risk is discussed under the combination of debt and equity proposed. Finally, it is
suggested that various benefits should be produced for shareholders; these benefits are discussed
below.
Based on research conducted, it is suggested that a mix of debt and equity must balance
harms and benefits to debt and equity. This can be discussed as the debt-equity trade off, which
aims to “choose a financing mix that minimizes the hurdle rate and matches the assets being 
financed” (Damodaran, n.d.). The benefits to utilizing a high debt to equity ratio include tax
benefits and increased and increased discipline to management; the costs of debt include risk of
bankruptcy, agency costs, and loss of future flexibility (Damodaran, n.d.). It can be concluded
overall that Nike may be able to have a debt to equity ratio that is fairly high (currently 0.11).
The central reason for this is Nike’s large size and access to capital and equity, which means that
the company has lower risk. The reasons for this are discussed below in more depth.
Risk has a significant impact in determining why this framework should be used. The risk
of bankruptcy is a significant risk; however, for a company that has significant resources, such as
Nike, this risk can be mitigated. Because of this, in this particular context, it may be valuable for
Nike to take on more debt because of the lower risk that it sees due to its size. When this
relatively low risk is balanced against various tax benefits, Nike may benefit from taking on this
debt.
Aversion has a significant impact in determining why this framework should be used.
Risk aversion is a concept in economics that states that actions are likely to be avoided if the
outcome is uncertain of the outcome. Those who are risk averse may be more likely to take a
strategy with more certain with a lower reward than a higher risk strategy that may have a higher
reward, but that is less certain. In the context of Nike, the company can take actions that avoid
risk but that are still highly profitable due to its size and success.
If such a mix of debt and equity is utilized, various benefits should be produced for
shareholders. One such benefit is more rapid growth of the company, which can result in higher
dividends for shareholders. This increased profit not only provides value to shareholders directly,
but also benefits the company by incentivizing investment.