Introduction
Stuart Skorman’s autobiography Confessions of a Serial Entrepreneur: Why I Can’t Stop
Starting Over provides insight into not only the life of Mr. Skorman, an experienced business
professional, but also provides insight into entrepreneurship in general, including a variety of
information that can be applied to the creation, development, and management of businesses.
In particular, this paper will focus on the strategies and techniques that Mr. Skorman used in
the development of his primary four business ventures: Empire Video, Reel.com, HungryMinds.com,
and Elephant Pharmace. However, while these four business ventures will be the primary discussion
points within this research paper, this paper will also address the usage of business strategies within
other portions of the life of Mr. Skorman, particularly within his other professional endeavors,
including his time spent working in the city of Boston at as a high­ranking executive at the company
Bread & Circus, a chain of grocery markets that specialized what the company referred to as “natural
foods” (Whole Foods Market History 2013).
While Mr. Skorman utilized many business strategies during his most active time as an
entrepreneur, and continues to utilize these strategies, as well as new strategies, today, this paper will
focus primarily on the main business strategies and types of business strategies that Mr. Skorman used
while creating, developing, managing, and maintaining his main professional endeavours. In particular,
this paper will discuss the specific strategies that Mr. Skorman used in the creation and development of
his four business ventures as well as the strategies and considerations that Mr. Skorman used in general
with regards to gaining legitimacy for his business ventures, including both nominal legitimacy as well
as industrial legitimacy; the usage of this legitimacy as a resource to gain other resources, as discussed
by Monica A. Zimmerman and Gerald . Zeitz; financing his endeavors; managing the growth of his
endeavors; and with regards to exit strategies.
I. Stuart Skorman ­​Life and Background
The life of Stuart Skorman spans a wide variety of contexts and situations, ranging from near
poverty working as a cab driver to eventually creating and managing numerous companies and having
access to exorbitant amounts of wealth. In order to understand the range of situations and issues
relevant to Stuart Skorman’s life, as well as the implications of these situations, analysis can begin at
the beginning of Skorman’s life, during which Skroman was born and raised in the state of Ohio within
the United States of America.
In the year 1948, Skorman was born to a lower­middle class family in Akron, Ohio; a situation
that is quite the opposite of what is experienced by many individuals who later become wealthy and
successful. Growing up with a “Jewish merchant family” in Akron, Ohio (Skorman 3), Skorman reports
that he gained much of his “entrepreneurial spirit,” as well as his Ohio roots from his paternal
grandfather, Simon Skorman (Skorman 10). Simor Skorman immigrated to the United States in the
year 1914 to join his relatives in the city of Cleveland, Ohio. Having a lack of resources due to the
uprooting of his life to transfer to a new country, Simon Skorman set out to find a way to support
himself and his family. Starting with the selling of pots and pans from a primitive wagon, Simon
Skorman slowly built up resources to eventually open a small store, a story that parallels much of the
life of Stuart Skorman. Unfortunately, due to the Great Depression, Simon Skorman ended up losing
his store in the year 1921 (Skorman 10); another instance that, in some cases, parallels the life of Stuart
Skorman. However, due to Simon Skorman’s desire to help his society, as well as his desire to be
successful, be continued to work, eventually opening a shop that sold necessities, such as clothing and
basic food (Skorman 10).
Growing up around Simon Skorman, as well as the rest of the Skorman family, Stuart Skorman
adopted many of these same principles as the foundation for the entrepreneurial ventures that he would
later proceed to explore over the course of his life. Stuart Skorman adopted the principles of social
responsibility, of striving for success, and of determination from his home environment and applied
many of these principles in business.
These principles were further reinforced by the events that occurred over the course of
Skorman’s childhood and adolescents in Akron, Ohio. Being the child of a family that owned a chain of
discount stores known as Miracle Mart, Skorman was immersed in business and entrepreneurship from
birth, and viewed many business practices in action on a daily basis. For example, by selling
Coca­Cola­­a product that “everyone knew the price of”­­for a very low price, Skorman’s parents were
able to subconsciously suggest to their customer base that all products in the store were a bargain
(Skorman 11). Skorman continued to learn these techniques under his parents.
However, regardless of the thorough experience that Skorman had on business practices,
Skorman struggled with the “standard” education process, often failing courses, receiving low grades,
and at times being told that he would likely not be able to graduate; Skorman himself reported that he
“would have dropped out i
other individuals, presented Skorman with many new world views that Skorman had not experienced
prior to leaving Ohio.
Skorman continued to learn more about the world and about business with his acceptance to the
Boston University School of Business. Despite his many struggles with academics during high school,
Skorman received high marks during his time at Boston University, eventually graduating from the
university with honors. Skorman then left the University, taking with him both his academic
experiences and knowledge, as well as new social bonds and experiences, which Skorman then used as
he began his life as an entrepreneur.
II. Stuart Skorman ­​Entrepreneurial Overview
Beginning in Vermont, Skorman launched the first of many entrepreneurial campaigns.
Beginning with a venture which would later evolve into what is currently known as Whole Foods,
Skorman began to work with the company Bread & Circus, which focused on delivering what the
company referred to as “natural foods” gaining experience during his time at this company and
eventually working his way up to the position of executive, Skorman gained much business experience,
which he later used in the development of his four main entrepreneurial ventures: Empire Video,
Reel.com, HungryMinds.com, and Elephant Pharmacy, all of which are discussed below in their
respective sections. This discussion includes both summaries of the history of these organizations and
business ventures as well as discussion of the business ventures used while creating, managing, and
developing the various businesses listed both above and below.
III. Empire Video
Summary
Beginning with what Skorman referred to as a “perfect start­up: a hole­in­the­wall
video store” (Skorman 71), Skorman entered the world of creating new ventures,
accepting the potential risks and rewards that came with such an endeavor. Despite the
potential risks, after working for the past three years in inconsistent and unfulfilling
work with Bread & Circus, Skorman was willing to accept these risks.
With these challenges in mind, Skorman responded to an advertisement regarding a
video rental store for sale, deciding that this endeavor was reasonable. Due to his
“desperation to make something of [himself],” Skorman purchased the business and
attempted to add direction to what he described as a the “directionless life of a 36 year
old man” (Skorman 73).
Business Practices
During Skorman’s time working with Empire Video, a business that experienced both
ups and downs, Skorman utilized numerous business practices. Skorman discusses
many business practices that are involved in the creation of Empire Video; however,
Skorman discusses one particular consideration that he claims resulted in the success of
this endeavor: Entering the project with a background of knowledge, experience, and
interest relevant to the video rental industry.
The first of the factors discussed is that of knowledge and experience and how this
knowledge and experience relates to success in business. Skorman reports that he knew
much about entertainment and retail from his experiences working with Bread & Circus
and argues that having interest in a field, having experience in a field, and having
knowledge in afield all assisted Skorman in developing Empire Video.
Parallels can be drawn between Skorman’s philosophy on the importance of
knowledge, experience, and interest to the similar philosophies held by other
entrepreneurs. Consider the case of MaritTrac, a company that provided services in
information technology. The founders of this company held similar views to Skorman
in that these individuals found niche opportunities with which the founders had
experience and based a business around that experience (Gupta 9).
This is a concept that is not only true anecdotally within the life of Skorman and other
particularly individuals that have been involved in the founding of businesses, but is
also true as a general rule within business. It is important for teams and individuals
involved in the entrepreneurial process to have knowledge of the issues that these
individuals intend to explore (Singh et. al. 178).
IV. Reel.com
Summary
After the success of Empire Video, a business that ended up providing Stuart Skorman
with a passive income of roughly half of a million dollars every year, Skorman
proceeded to explore numerous other financial opportunities. The next of the
companies that he had a significant stake in founding is that of Reel.com, a website
designed to play off of the success of Empire Video, which aimed to be an additional
component of the movie sales and rental business.
After gathering a total of two million dollars to invest in Reel.com, Skorman began the
process of turning the project into a reality. Skorman invested the two million startup
dollars into technologically oriented professionals to create a functional website.
Skorman also used startup money to pay workers for the business, such as data
managers, consultants, and financial managers (Skorman 124).
However, regardless of the significant amount of time and effort that was invested in
Reel.com by not only Skorman, but also by his associates, his famility, his employees,
and his investors, Reel.com was not a successful endeavor in the long term.
DVDEmpire.com, a rival business that also participated in the online promotion of the
sale and rental of movies, ended up driving Reel.com (as well as other competitors) out
of business toward the end of the year 2000 (Arthur, 2007).
While Skorman’s business venture for Empire Video ended up driving other companies
out of business, Skorman’s business venture for Reel.com ended up being driven out of
business. This aligns with another of Skorman’s fundamental principles: That
investment and entrepreneurship require risk, and that not all endeavors are successful;
in fact, many do not even break even.
Business Practices
Reel.com is an effective real world example of various fundamental principles that are
evident in the world of business. The following principles are considered to be highly
important in business and were also highly impactful during the lifetime of Reel.com:
The impact of outside contributions and the impact of teamwork.
While it is common for entrepreneurs to consider themselves to be entirely self reliant,

to be entirely responsible for the success or failure of an endeavor, and to be the driving
force behind all progress, this is not necessarily the case in reality. In reality, successful
businesses involve joint contributions from entrepreneurs, workers, investors, and
numerous other parties.
In the case of Stuart Skorman, contributions were not only made by Mr. Skorman, but
were also made by his family and friends; his employees; his customers; and his
numerous investors, such as CMGI, which invested over three million dollars into the
company (Skorman 129). Without these investments and without these general
contributions, Skorman would not have been able to build the infrastructure needed for
his business, would not have been able to advertise, would not have had services to
provide, and would have been largely unsuccessful in his entrepreneurial endeavors,
regardless of his personal contributions.
Reporter Keith Ayers describes explore this common misconception as follows:
“Innovation is typically misunderstood. Many business leaders believe innovation is a
rare gift that exists mainly in people who are in leadership roles,” however, “innovation
[does] not come from [a single organizational head], but through their talented army of
supporters” (Ayers, 2008). This can be explored in specific through discussion of
political campaigns and political organizations relevant to the 2008 presidential
election. Barack Obama’s political campaign, the “success story of the primary
season,” required thorough innovation and efforts; however, when the scale of this
campaign is analysed, it is clear that it is impossible for all of the necessary efforts to
have come from one individual. External support, such as campaign contributions were
necessary to fund the campaign; internal support, such as the establishment of
grassroots campaigns needed to target numerous groups and individuals, and could
only done through thorough collaboration (Ayers, 2008).
While many other factors were involved in the creation of Reel.com, Skorman reports
that the primary consideration relevant to the management of an online enterprise of
such a significant size is that of the contributions of many different individuals and
organizations, without which Reel.com could not have gotten off of the ground.
Regardless of the failure of Reel.com in the long term, these team contributions caused

early success for Reel.com and can also be applied to other business situations.
V. HungryMinds.com
Summary
After his involvement with Reel.com, Skorman gained a heavy interest in the dot com
business, continuing to develop and discuss ideas and business ventures that could
participate the dot com boom. In line with Skorman’s additional goal of social
responsibility and contributing to the community in general, Skorman came across
another niche which he believed that he and his associates could fill: The online
education marketplace.
Skorman argued that education has been and continues to be a fundamental component
of success for individuals, “From the beginning of history, education has been the key
to freedom and power. If you’re born into a very poor family, your best chance of
making a great life for yourself is through education” (Skorman 142). Because of the
benefits of education that Skorman advocated for, he developed a goal to “help spread
access to education through modern technology” by “creat[ing] the Web’s dominant
online learning portal and store for distance education,” through which Skorman and
his associates would be able to “sell online courses made by others and [to] eventually
create [their] own digital classes” (Skorman 142).
Because of Skorman and his associates’ desires to fulfil this niche marketplace and to
provide educational opportunities to individuals, especially those in poverty, Skorman
and his associates began work on HungryMinds.com, an endeavor that would become
largely successful, partnering with numerous other organizations and individuals, such
as Google, UC Berkeley Extension, Monster.com, and Harvard Business School Press
for mutually beneficial purposes (“Hungry Minds.com Chooses Google”).
Business Practices
While numerous notable business practices are relevant to the creation of
HungryMinds.com, Skorman claims that two key business practices were relevant and
particularly important in the context of HungryMinds.com, which can also be applied

to other business ventures outside of HungryMinds.com. First, Skorman claims that
HungryMinds.com is an especially relevant example when discussing the importance of
the bottom line in business; second, Skorman claims that business parterships, while
highly common and important within business in general, were particularly important
in the cnontext of HungryMinds.com.
When discussing the issue of the bottom, which Skorman defines as the “fundamental,
unavoidable core requirement of demand of any situation,” (Skorman 143), it is
important to recognize that without maintaining the bottom line, a business venture will
virtually never be effective. “What I learned from Hungry Minds.com is that good
intention in business don’t conribute to successs. No matter why you are starting your
business, you better have a plan that will make a profit” (Skorman 143). According to
Stuart Skorman, when developing Hungry Minds.com, too much attention was paid to
“helping other people” and “attention to making a profit” was neglected (Skorman
143). For a business to be able to help others, that business must remain in business,
which cannot be done without income.
This principle of remembering the bottom line is directly applicable to not only
HungryMinds.com, but also to business ventures in general. When discussing the issue
of keeping funding in general in motion, if there is not consistent focus on bringing in
income and profits, a business can easily fail, particularly during the first years of its
existence (Cassar 266). This is particularly problematic in that businesses that fail result
in much lost capital, which cannot be recovered.
In addition to ensuring that a business maintains its bottom line, businesses should also
consider the benefits of relationships and partnerships with other businesses. The
partnerships that have been utilized by HungryMinds.com and that continue to be
utilized by HungryMinds.com involve “techies, editors, writers, researchers,
instructional designers, teachers and a variety of Internet executives and producers”
from a variety of organizations, including “UC Berkeley Extension, Monster.com and
Harvard Business School Press” (“Hungry Minds.com Chooses Google”).
This principle of ensuring the utilization of mutually beneficial relationships between
organizations, businesses, and individuals can be applied widely to help to ensure
success for businesses, entrepreneurs, startups, and other entities. This concept is
explored in Toby E. Stuart, Ha Hoang, and Ralph C. Hybels’ analysis of the
“interorganizational networks of young companies” and the way that these
interorganizational networks “affect their ability to acquire the resources necessary for
survival and growth” (Stuart et. al. 315). The analysis conducted by Stuart and his
colleagues concludes that mutually beneficial interorganizational networks can assist
companies in establishing legitimacy, specifically industry legitimacy; in increasing
company influence; and in increasing awareness of a company (Ibid 316).
The first of the numerous benefits of the interorganizational networks is that of
establishing and increasing legitimacy for the organizations involved, in this case,
specifically increasing the industry legitimacy of HungryMinds.com. Industry
legitimacy and the recognition of a company as a reasonable and effective competitor
in existing business markets is aided by interorganizational networks for numerous
reasons. First, by establishing interorganizational relationships with businesses that
already have industry legitimacy, an industry is unofficially recognized as being
legitimate by the industry that already has industry legitimacy. This is particularly
important for businesses in that legitimacy is one of the most crucial resources in being
recognized in the marketplace, “legitimacy is an important resource for gaining other
resources,” which are “crucial for new venture growth” (Zimmerman et. al. 414).
For example, when HungryMinds.com was first launched, while the industry already
had some legitimacy due to, for example, Skorman’s history of business,
HungryMinds.com was a new competitor in the online education market; customers
could not necessarily know if HungryMinds.com was a legitimate organization and
would not necessarily know the quality of Hungry Minds.com. However, by partnering
with, for example, Google, an organization that is already recognized as being highly
legitimate, HungryMinds.com is then viewed as more legitimate by consumers and by
others in the online educaiton industry.
Interorganizational relationships and networks also contribute to increasing the
influence of a company and in increasing awareness of a company. This is true partially
for similar reasons to why interorganizational networks can increase industry
legitimacy: partnerships with already influential organizations allows startups and less
known organizations to be recognized by larger entities. However, these
interorganizational relationships are beneficial for further reasons beyond simply being
recognized by other organizations. In particular, partnering with other organizations
provides venues for advertising, provides access to the services of other companies, and
access to other “experienced and influential actors” (Stuart et. al. 315).
In the case of HungryMinds.com, Stuart and his colleagues were able to gain
“endorsements that influence[d] perceptions of the quality of [this] young
organization,” were able to reach out to other professionals, and were able to connect
with potential clients and customers (Stuart et. al. 315).
VI. Elephant Pharmacy
Summary
After experiencing success, failure, and a variety of middle ground in his previous
business endeavors, Skorman decided that he was ready to embark on what he
describes as “the biggest project of his life” (Skorman 161). Starting with an idea that
progressively “became an obsession,” Skorman began to develop plans for a business
that would become known as Elephant Pharmacy, an enterprise that Skorman intended
to be a “one­stop­shopping experience” for customers, providing access to “medical
traditions of the west and East” in a single business (Skorman 162).
Skorman’s idea for Elephant Pharmacy included a variety of components, including
“two full­service pharmacies: one for prescriptions and one for herbs”; “shopping bags
filled with aspirin and echinacea, ear candles and Q­tips”; and a lack of
“chemical­infused beauty products, junk food, [...] tobacco” and other products that
Skorman considered to be harmful and/or unnatural (Skorman 162). Skorman desired
to provide goods and services to consumers that could be classified as “natural,” such
as the usage of appointments with estheticians who worked exclusively with natural
products and the offering of natural and healthy snacks instead of candy bars (Skorman
162).
However, despite the very heavy focus of Elephant Pharmacy on providing goods and
services from both Eastern and Western origin, the principles behind Skorman’s desire
to open Elephant Pharmacies was not just that of opening a chain of stores that offered
both products of Eastern and Western origin. Rather, Skorman describes his primary
motivation for the opening of Elephant Pharmacies as being customer education,
intending to not only provide goods and services to customers, but to also provide
education to these customers (Skorman 163).
With the above principles and ideas in mind, in the year 2001, Skorman decided to turn
his vision of Elephant Pharmacy to life (Skorman 166). During the development,
launch, management, and lifetime of the Elephant Pharmacy chain, many business
practices and considerations will used and made, which had numerous outcomes, both
positive and negative.
Business Practices
While many different business practices were involved in the successes and failures of
the Elephant Pharmacy chain, several key considerations are particularly notable in the
case of the Elephant Pharmacy chain. The first of these considerations that arose during
the early lifetime of the Elephant Pharmacy chain is that of organizational structures
and their impacts on the efficacy of the Elephant Pharmacy system. The second key
consideration discussed by Skorman when reflecting on the lifetime of Elephant
Pharmacy is that of entry into markets that are already competitive and the tactics used
by Elephant Pharmacy when entering into this domain. The third of these
considerations is that of the way that the Elephant Pharmacy brand established
legitimacy, in specific, normative legitimacy.
The first of the three considerations listed above is that of organizational structures of
the Elephant Pharmacy system, including the components of employee structure and
hierarchy, storefront organization, and data organization, all of which factored into the
level of success experienced by Elephant Pharmacy.
The organization of employees within the Elephant Pharmacy system includes
numerous considerations. These considerations aimed to ensure that the Elephant
Pharmacy chain would be able to provide effective customer service to its customers.
In specific, Skorman and his associates desired to hire high­quality management staff,
due to the benefits that skilled managers would likely have on the Elephant Pharmacy
chain (Skorman 171). While it is true that corporations cannot ride entirely on
high­level employees and management, it is also important for organizations to have
effective management to be able to succeed in the marketplace.
The focus that Skorman had on ensuring that Elephant Pharmacy branches would have
skilled management was done for the purpose of ensuring that hiring, training, and
management would be done effectively, since these processes determine the level of
happiness of employees as well as the skill of employees (Skorman 165). These
benefits could then be passed onto customers and to the business in general. Employees
who are happy working for an organization are more able to promote a positive
corporate environment, which is seen by customers. The skill of employees is also
directly seen by customers; for example, an employee who is not knowledgeable about
the products sold may make a corporation seem shoddy, whereas the opposite is also
true. Furthermore, well trained employees are also more able to complete necessary
tasks effectively; an employee who understands how to work with company software
can complete tasks much more quickly than a less knowledgeable individual.
By including the above strategies in the business plan used for the Elephant Pharmacy
chain prior to the actual establishment and launch of the chain, Skorman and his
associates were able to ensure that the Elephant Pharmacy chain would include
minimal unforeseen flaws. “Any entrepreneur who is in business or is about to launch a
business needs a well­conceived and factually based business plan to increase the
likelihood of success” (Scarborough 127).
As for the organization of the storefront, “Elephant Pharmacy doesn't look or even
smell much like a regular drugstore” (Welles, 2004). On a fundamental level, this
organizational structure of the storefront is a key example of some of the strategies
used by Skorman and the Elephant Pharmacy chain to compete as a startup in a
marketplace that was already saturated with pharmacies.
On a basic level, the key factor that contributed to the successful integration of the
Elephant Pharmacy chain into the pharmacy marketplace despite the prevalence of
existing competition, such as Walgreens and CVS is that of being unique from
competitors in some way; in the case of the Elephant Pharmacy chain, this was done by
proving both traditional medicine as well as alternative medicines (Skorman 168). “The
first eight customers standing in line on the day [Elephant Pharmacy] opened were
Walgreens managers,” who “would have waited all day because [Elephant Pharmacy]
[was] the first new concept in the drugstore business in fifty years” (Skorman 170). By
including a component that could not be found at the competition, such as at
Walgreens, the Elephant Pharmacy chain was able to fill a niche within the pharmacy
industry, thus allowing the chain to succeed.
The final component that Skorman considered to be a primary consideration in the
specific context of the Elephant Pharmacy chain is that of establishing legitimacy; in
specific, in establishing normative legitimacy. Numerous factors contribute to the
establishment of legitimacy for a business, or, in some cases, to the lack of
establishment of legitimacy. In the case of Elephant video, the first of these factors can
be considered to be the way that Elephant Pharmacy projected values that were
supported by the communities around the Elephant Pharmacy branches, as well as of
the customers; for example, by providing liveable wages to employees, customers
viewed Elephant Pharmacy as having normative legitimacy. The next of these factors
can be considered to that of implicit and explicit endorsements by affiliates of the
pharmacy branch, which, as discussed earlier in this paper, increases corporate
legitimacy (Stuart et. al. 315).
By planning actions before they were taken, by engaging with the pharmacy industry in
ways that had not largely been done previously, and by increasing the legitimacy of the
Elephant Pharmacy chain, the Elephant Pharmacy chain was able to become a well
known, supported, and successful enterprise.
VII. Miscellaneous Ventures
The four businesses discussed above, Empire Video, Reel.com, HungryMinds.com, and the
Elephant Pharmacy chain are the four businesses that Stuart Skorman has been involved in the creation
of to date and reflect the business practices of Mr. Skorman relatively accurately. However, in addition
to these four businesses, Mr. Skorman also engaged in several other business ventures, which, while
not foundings of companies, can still be seen to reflect the practices and philosophies of Mr. Skorman
in business. In particular, Mr. Skorman was involved in professional poker competitions and was also
involved in the management of Bread & Circus, a corporation that was later bought out and that is
currently known as Whole Foods.
During Mr. Skorman’s time playing the game of poker professionally, Mr. Skorman utilized
numerous business practices that are also applicable directly to business creation and management. The
first of these miscellaneous principles, as discussed by Mr. Skorman, is that of studying competitors,
particularly those who have been successful and/or profitable. In the case of playing poker
professionally, strategies have been practiced for years and many entire books have been written on the
game; it is far more pragmatic to utilize existing information than it is to “reinvent the wheel, which is
very expensive,” especially considering that even when significant time is allocated to studying poker,
many strategies might not be thought of by a single person (Skorman 116). By utilizing collective
knowledge, individuals can become more educated as to how to be successful at the game of poker.
Skorman argues that these concepts of utilizing collective knowledge and of learning from
other skilled individuals must be applied to the world of business as well if one intends to succeed. Mr.
Skorman provides an example used during the development of the business plan used for the creation
of the Elephant Pharmacy chain:
Before I started Elephant Pharmacy, I spent a lot of time studying Walgreens. For the life of
me, I couldn’t figure out why they devoted so much floor space to greeting cards. Cards alone
are not a money maker and take up a huge amount of space. What a waste! When I visited
Walgreens during the Christmas season, the cards suddenly made more sense. People buy cards
because it’s a holiday or a birthday, which means they are often in the market for a gift too. So
I put a greeting section in Elephant Pharmacy. (Skorman 116)
Mr. Skorman proceeds to elaborate on the idea of utilizing collective knowledge by discussing
the way in which this utilization of collective knowledge impacts the functionality of teams. As
established through Harper’s analysis of entrepreneurial teams, it is clear that entrepreneurship
functions most effectively with group collaboration and input; this is especially notable in that
individuals who engage with teams bring external knowledge with them; by analysing team members
and their strategies, other team members benefit (Harmer 620). Mr. Skorman agrees with this analysis
and states that there are “millions of smart people in the world” and that it is important to utilize the
abilities of all members of a team (Skorman 117).
In addition to Mr. Skorman’s two years playing the game of poker professionally, Skorman was
also involved in another highly notable professional venture: Work with the business Bread & Circus,
which was particularly notable due to Skorman’s role as an executive with the company. During
Skorman’s time working with Bread & Circus, Skorman utilized numerous business practices,
including those that have been discussed previously in this paper. However, out of the business
practices that were utilized by Skorman during his time working with Bread & Circus, Skorman
considers the most significant of these practices to be social responsibility (Skorman 50).
Skorman found during his time working with Bread & Circus that Bread & Circus was a
desired and well­liked business because while “conventional grocery stores stocked anything that
turned a profit, from cigarettes to Spam, Bread & Circus took a different approach. The company
carried organic foods... it elevated customer health above the lure of a quick dime” (Skorman 50). This
business philosophy of social responsibility helped Bread & Circus to succeed in the marketplace.
This success based around social responsibility can be directly linked to various principles of
business and marketing. The first of these principles is that of legitimacy; corporations that are viewed
as socially responsible tend to be viewed by consumers as being trustworthy, thus increasing legitimacy
and business (Singh et. al. 171). Second, since social responsibility as implemented by Bread & Circus
(e.g., stocking foods considered to be healthy) was particularly uncommon when Bread & Circus
entered the market, Bread & Circus stood out in the mind of consumers and was able to compete with
existing grocery stores, regardless of their hold on much of the marketplace.
IX. Financial Strategies and Considerations
While the various business strategies discussed previously in this paper regarding numerous
particular business ventures of Stuart Skorman are important to consider when analysing businesses
and business creation, for these practices and strategies to be implemented at all, it is necessary for the
business ventures in question to have access to the necessary capital to get off of the ground. In order to
understand this concept of gaining and managing capital, it is valuable to analyse the methods of
acquiring capital that were used by Skorman in his business endeavors. Three main sources of funding
can be analysed with regards to Skorman’s business ventures: First, the investment of Skorman’s own
capital into business ventures; second, the sharing and borrowing of resources from partnered
businesses; and third, the usage of effective business strategies to maximize revenue during early
business.
For the purposes of acquiring capital to launch business ventures, perhaps the most direct
method is to use one’s own capital. This method is one of various methods utilized by Skorman in his
various endeavors. For the purposes of launching his first business venture, Empire Video, Skorman
invested $100,000 of his own capital as the main source of funding for the company (Skorman 73).
This method of funding business ventures has both benefits and detriments. As for the benefits of this
method of funding, self­funding of business ventures is straightforward; has no obligation to external
parties; and can be done immediately, provided that the capital is available (Winborg et. al. 235).
However, self funding of business ventures also has flaws in that this form of funding is very high risk,
in that the capital may be lost entirely; and that this form of funding is often not possible, especially for
those who do not have the necessary thousands or millions of dollars on hand to fund a project
(Winborg et. al. 236). In the case of Stuart Skorman, this form of funding has been a successful
component of funding business ventures, since Skorman has had access to the capital needed and has
had additional capital to fall back on if the invested capital is lost.
However, even in the case of an individual who does have much access to capital that can be
used to directly fund one’s own business ventures, such as Skorman, other forms of funding are, in the
vast majority of cases, still utilized. In the case of Skorman, capital was shared and borrowed from
various business partners, such as the investment of an initial two million dollars from numerous
investors, including investors from Bread & Circus as well as an additional three million dollars from
CMGI, a Boston­based Internet company (Skorman 125).
This method of funding involves both benefits and detriments. Borrowing and sharing capital
between partnered organizations to fund business ventures minimizes risk in that if a business fails, the
capital lost is generally spread between the parties involved; furthermore, this method of acquiring
capital can be utilized by entrepreneurs who do not have minimal capital to invest directly into business
ventures (Winborg et. al. 236). However, by utilizing borrowed or shared capital to fund business
ventures, companies and/or individuals involved in the creations, development, or management of new
business ventures will generally have decreased autonomy over their businesses and will have
increased obligations to external parties; in general, corporations and individuals provide capital to
investors because they expect a return on their investment of some kind, which is reflected through the
terms on the capital provided (Winborg et. al. 236).
The final significant method of acquiring capital for investment in business ventures used by
Skorman is that of working to ensure early profits in business to be able to pay back capital borrowed
and to ensure that capital will be available for early costs. In addition to the capital that is needed for
costs prior to the opening of a business, such as for the construction of a physical building, capital is
also needed for various other early costs after a business in launched; for example, immediately after
employees begin to work for a newly launched company, that company will need to consistently be
able to provide the employees in question with the wages to which they are entitled; to pay for these
costs, businesses should generally strive to bring in many profits immediately.
X. Strategies and Considerations for Growth Management
In addition to addressing early costs and considerations, entrepreneurs who wish to launch
successful businesses must also be able to adequately address the needs of their companies as these
companies grow, develop, and change. In the case of Stuart Skorman, many considerations regarding
the growth of Skorman’s various business ventures needed to be addressed. In specific, Skorman
needed to address growth in sales (both absolute and relative) and growth in employment (both total
and relative). This relates to business growth and development in general in that employment growths
of various types and sales growths of various types are considered to be the two main categories in
which businesses can and should grow (Delmar 189).
With regards to the topic of sales growth in the businesses of Stuart Skorman, Elephant
Pharmacy is a particularly clear example. Consider first the subcategory of absolute sales growth (i.e.,
the level of sales regardless of costs and size); in order to expand Elephant Pharmacy, Skorman and his
associates opened additional branches beyond the initial store, thus increasing access to the pharmacy
and increasing the total number of sales. However, because the opening of this additional store also
came with additional costs, to increase income on a more meaningful level, it was necessary to also
work to increase relative sales (i.e., income from sales relative to size and cost). To increase relative
sales, numerous actions were taken. For example, shortly after the opening of Elephant Pharmacy,
analysis was conducted on consumer preferences and profits; less desired products and programs, such
as the greeting card section were shrunk, whereas the more desired programs, such as classes, were
increased in size (Skorman 172). Reallocating resources to goods and services that would sell and that
would be profitable, relative sales increased.
In addition to increasing absolute and relative sales for the purposes of growth, Skorman’s
companies also aimed to increase relative and absolute employment as a component of growth.
Skorman and his associates accomplished this for the Elephant Pharmacy franchise by opening
additional branches, adding positions as demand dictated (for example, the need for instructors for
courses increased greatly), and by providing wages and benefits that fit employee needs (Skorman
173).
By managing relative and absolute employment and sales, Skorman’s businesses were able to
grow to function in competitive marketplaces and to bring in profits. The focus that Skorman had on
growth and development for his business ventures is in part responsible for the success of the
businesses of Skorman, both in those that have since left the market and in those that continue to exist
in the present day.
XI. Exit Strategies and Considerations
In addition to the creation of businesses and the management of these businesses once they
have been created, it is also necessary for business managers to be able to effectively address what is to
happen to a business once the current owner of the business no longer wishes to own and/or manage
that business. This issue is particularly significant in the case of Stuart Skorman in that Mr. Skorman is
a “serial entrepreneur,” having founded four different companies. Skorman has since clearly utilized
exit strategies during his departure from the companies that he has founded. However, Skorman does
not provide significant depth into his exit strategies within his autobiography beyond the simple fact
that Skorman has since sold his companies; this may be largely due to what DeTienne discusses in a
2010 article on exit strategies: while exit strategies are needed for the majority of corporations, these
strategies are often given little thought and are largely overlooked, even by the founders and owners of
companies (DeTinne 203).
XIV. Limitations
While Skorman’s Confessions of a Serial Entrepreneur: Why I Can't Stop Starting Over
explores the details of Skorman’s business endeavors in detail, including depth regarding business
practices and strategies, there are several areas in which information on Skorman’s businesses and
business practices is lacking or unavailable. First, Skorman provides little information about his exit
from the companies that he founded stating only that his companies have been sold and/or have closed.
Additional depth regarding to whom these companies were sold, why these companies were sold to
these entities, and general information on the exit of Skorman from his companies would be useful in
exploring these issues. Second, relatively few specific figures and pieces of data regarding Skorman’s
companies and Skorman’s business practices are available. For example, while Skorman may specify
that profits increased for a company, it is largely unspecified to what degree these profits increased.
The general information provided is applicable to general analysis of business practices, but is more
difficult to analyse in detail.
XV. Conclusions
Stuart Skorman’s business practices and business philosophies developed largely in response to
the environment in which he was raised and in response to his educational experiences. Growing up in
a family that ran a business, Skorman was immersed in business practices from a young age.
Skorman’s education and interactions with other individuals motivated him to use the knowledge that
he had learned growing up in a business family to assist others in a socially responsible manner.
With the above goals in mind, Skorman founded four companies over the course of his life:
Empire Video, Reel.com, HungryMinds.com, and Elephant Pharmacy; in addition, Skorman was also
involved in the management of Bread & Circus, as well as in the business of professional poker. During
his time with these companies and in these fields, Skorman employed various business tactics to
varying degrees of success.
Through successful management of the capital needed to launch business ventures, Skorman
was able to boost his business ideas from being simple ideas to being full organizations that were able
to interact with the community in meaningful ways. Effective usage of personal capital as well as
capital borrowed from partnered organizations, Skorman was able to effectively gain the resources to
launch businesses that were able to quickly begin to bring in profits to continue operations.
After the launch of his various businesses, Skorman utilized various growth management
strategies to ensure that his companies not grew in both sales as well as employment rates. To ensure
that this growth was meaningful, Skorman ensured that the growth of his companies occurred in both
relative growth and absolute growth. Through the usage of these strategies, Skorman’s companies
largely continued to grow.
Despite the minimal information available on Skorman’s exit from the companies that he
founded, it is clear that Skorman has since left the four companies that he founded having sold his
companies to other corporations and/or individuals.
Overall, Stuart Skorman utilized a wide variety of business practices to create, manage, and
grow various organizations. Skorman’s management assisted greatly in the success of his businesses.
Skorman’s business practices are not only applicable to the businesses that Skorman ran, but are also
relevant to business creation, management, and growth as a whole.