Over the duration of this course, I plan to work with a company project on the release of
a new seasonal beverage, the Sunset Margarita, at my place of employment, Lemongrass Bar and
Grill. While the project is overseen by higher management, I am privy to the details of this
project because of my role in this project as a bartender who will be tasked with the creation and
serving of this seasonal drink.
A variety of processes are utilized during the initiation process of projects. According to
the Project Management Body of Knowledge Guide, the project management process is “the
process of formally authorizing a new project or that an existing project should continue into its
next phase” (Guide, 2001, p. 53). The process include discussion of the project, comparison of
the product existing goals, analysis of selection criteria, and discussion of historical information.
These processes are important because they have valuable outputs. First, these processes result in
the creation of a project charter, which discusses the needs of the project as well as project
details. A second output is the determination of the project manager. Third, constraints are
determined. Finally, assumptions are determined.
It is also important to consider the role that project sponsors have in the initiation of
projects. For a given project, the project sponsor or sponsors provide financial resources to
projects. These individuals and organizations must approve projects. Additionally, projects
sponsors have the capacity to influence projects to some extent through their financial input.
In the particular case of my project with Lemongrass, several pieces of framework and
overview information are relevant. The primary purpose of this project is to allow the transition
into the summer market to be smooth. There are several key objectives of this project;
specifically, this project aims to increase revenue, to increase customer satisfaction, and to adapt
to seasonal marketplace changes. Several success criteria can be analysed to determine whether
these objectives have been reached and to what extent the project has failed or succeeded. These
criteria include analysis of costs of raw materials, preparation costs, customer satisfaction, and
public perception. Determining success of the project can also be done with review of the high
level requirements of the project. These high level requirements include accounting of costs,
management of employees, and advertising of products to the public.
Understanding the role of stakeholders in this context is also important. In the case of this
project, the relevant stakeholders include shareholders, employees and customers. Stakeholders
impact the project in several ways, including providing funding through purchases of the
beverages, creating beverages, and providing feedback on the product. Additionally, stakeholders
are impacted by the project through wages, costs, and enjoyment received from the project.